Subgraph Best Practices 5 and 6 (#825)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/cookbook/timeseries.mdx

---
title: Subgraph Best Practice 5 - Simplify and Optimize with Timeseries and Aggregations
---

## TLDR

> Leveraging the new timeseries and aggregations feature in subgraphs can significantly enhance both indexing speed and query performance. By offloading aggregation computations to the database and simplifying mapping code, this approach reduces data processing overhead and accelerates queries, especially when dealing with large volumes of time-based data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Leveraging the new time-series and aggregations feature in subgraphs can significantly enhance both indexing speed and query performance. 

## Overview

Timeseries and aggregations reduce data processing overhead and accelerate queries by offloading aggregation computations to the database and simplifying mapping code. This approach is particularly effective when handling large volumes of time-based data.
```

> ## Why Timeseries and Aggregations Are a Best Practice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Benefits of Timeseries and Aggregations
```

> 1. Improved Indexing Time • Less Data to Load: Mappings handle less data since raw data points are stored as immutable timeseries entities. • Database-Managed Aggregations: Aggregations are automatically computed by the database, reducing the workload on the mappings.

Reviewer: Spacing issue that's distorting the formatting. I think the bullet point are suppose to be below the numbers, right?

2. Simplified Mapping Code • No Manual Calculations: Developers no longer need to write complex aggregation logic in mappings. • Reduced Complexity: Simplifies code maintenance and minimizes the potential for errors.
3. Dramatically Faster Queries • Immutable Data: All timeseries data is immutable, enabling efficient storage and retrieval. • Efficient Data Separation: Aggregates are stored separately from raw timeseries data, allowing queries to process significantly less data—often several orders of magnitude less.

## How to Implement Timeseries and Aggregations

> ### Defining Timeseries Entities

Reviewer: Is there a hierarchy to all the headings underneath? They're all level 3 headings, so just double checking 😄

  ) {
    id
    timestamp
    token {
      id
    }
    totalVolume
    priceUSD
    count
  }
}
```

### Using Dimensions in Aggregations

Dimensions are non-aggregated fields used to group data points. They enable aggregations based on specific criteria, such as a token in a financial application.

Example:

### Timeseries Entity

```graphql
type TokenData @entity(timeseries: true) {
  id: Int8!
  timestamp: Timestamp!
  token: Token!
  amount: BigDecimal!
  priceUSD: BigDecimal!
}
```

### Aggregation Entity with Dimension

```graphql
type TokenStats @aggregation(intervals: ["hour", "day"], source: "TokenData") {
  id: Int8!
  timestamp: Timestamp!
  token: Token!
  totalVolume: BigDecimal! @aggregate(fn: "sum", arg: "amount")
  priceUSD: BigDecimal! @aggregate(fn: "last", arg: "priceUSD")
  count: Int8! @aggregate(fn: "count", cumulative: true)
}
```

- Dimension Field: token groups the data, so aggregates are computed per token.
- Aggregates:
  - totalVolume: Sum of amount.
  - priceUSD: Last recorded priceUSD.
  - count: Cumulative count of records.

### Aggregation Functions and Expressions

Supported aggregation functions:

- sum
- count
- min
- max
- first
- last

> The arg in @aggregate can be:

Reviewer: This seems like it should be a subheading

- A field name from the timeseries entity.
- An expression using fields and constants.

> Examples of Aggregation Expressions:

Reviewer: This also seems like a subheading

- Sum Token Value: @aggregate(fn: "sum", arg: "priceUSD \_ amount")
- Maximum Positive Amount: @aggregate(fn: "max", arg: "greatest(amount0, amount1, 0)")
- Conditional Sum: @aggregate(fn: "sum", arg: "case when amount0 > amount1 then amount0 else 0 end")

Supported operators and functions include basic arithmetic (+, -, \_, /), comparison operators, logical operators (and, or, not), and SQL functions like greatest, least, coalesce, etc.

### Query Parameters

- interval: Specifies the time interval (e.g., "hour").
- where: Filters based on dimensions and timestamp ranges.
- timestamp_gte / timestamp_lt: Filters for start and end times (microseconds since epoch).

### Notes

- Sorting: Results are automatically sorted by timestamp and id in descending order.
- Current Data: An optional current argument can include the current, partially filled interval.

### Important Considerations

> - Immutable Data: Timeseries data cannot be altered once written, ensuring data integrity and simplifying indexing.

Reviewer: It might be useful to place this closer to the top bc it strikes me as a warning

Reviewer 2: +1
